Day 1

Today some travellers arrived at the tavern.

First to arrive was a half-orc paladin called Thargal. He booked in to stay the night then settled down for a quiet meal.
Next was a halfling bard, Daerden, who offered to play for us that evening in exchange for ale. To my annoyance, after I gave him the first pint, he just started drinking instead.
Third to arrive was a secretive half-elf who tried to ask Thargal (of all people) about treasure.
Finally, we were joined by a ranger and a druid with an interest in the local weather.

After the awkward discussion between Thargal and the half-elf, talk turned to the weather and Daerden spun a tale of how sorcerers fifty years ago drew so much magic from a place that it was left in perpetual cold. The abandoned temple was also mentioned and Thargal showed particular interest in exploring it. A plan to explore tomorrow started to form when four empire soldiers burst in demanding ale in exchange for the pleasure of their company!

After some attempts to defuse the situation from myself, the druid and Thargal, a fight broke out. Daerden finally decided to play a tune, inspiring courage in the travellers. The big brute of a leader tried to attack me over the bar, but thankfully he missed. I had lost my patience at this point and shot him in return. After a short time, the door burst open again and the captain of these soliders broke up the fight, and escorted them away after paying thirty gold by way of apology. Thargal split the gold equally between the travellers and me.

Before leaving the captain indicated that his group were also here intending to investigate the temple. Some of the travellers wanted to investigate immediately, but cooler heads prevailed, especially after an offer of free lodging for the night.

Day 2

After a hearty breakfast, the travellers and I set out to the temple. We quickly discovered a trail of blood from the temple doors towards the forest. After following it, we found the captain from the previous night, badly injured.
Thargal managed to heal the captain who warned us not to enter the temple before falling into a restful sleep. Thargal carried the captain back to the inn. Meanwhile, the druid sent an owl into the temple to scout.
When Thargal and the owl had returned, the druid explained that the owl had seen a wounded man chained up in a large room and some statues apparently made of ice.

We decided to enter the temple. We were immediately greeted by a large mask, clearly magical, which challenged us with a riddle: "What is the source of power?". We also saw the bodies of the four soldiers surrounding the mask, with horrible burns.
I used my knowledge of magic to determine that the magic of the mask was only active in the centre of the room. After some thought, Thargal decided to break down the door at the far end of the room, allowing us to just move on freely.

The next room had a giant pit full of rotting food, rats and other things too horrible to mention. Thankfully, there were thin ledges either side of the pit, so I carefully edged over to the other side. The druid followed me with ease, then the ranger made a spectacular leap across the pit. The other three of our party were not so agile. Daerden was first to fall in, followed by the half-elf who started to panic. Finally Thargal also tried to cross using the widest ledge, but that was never going to work!
Thargal helped lift Daerden out of the pit while the half-elf climbed out. After Thargal also climbed out, they paused to clean up, calming down the half-elf and letting Thargal regain his composure.

In the third room, there were two ice statues, which attacked us as Thargal crossed the room to try the next door. After a quick fight, we defeated both elementals and the half-elf picked the lock to the next room. We entered a corridor with a turn to the right leading to a large door and a small door straight ahead.

We decided to try the small door first, where we met four goblins playing poker. I asked to join the game, as did Daerden and I quickly bluffed my way to winnings of five teeth! Maybe we should have checked what the stakes were before we started playing...
While the game was happening, the druid started to question the goblins, and we learnt that their master is a powerful magic user. After this, we decided to head back and try the main door to avoid fighting the goblins unnecessarily.

Thargal opened the large door to find the chained man. I scanned the room for magic and discovered that his manacles were heavily bespelled. Thargal moved to heal the prisoner, but when he was half-way across fog filled the room. I scanned for magic again and with the help of the druid, we found the sorcerer in the far left corner of the hall. Thargal moved to attack while the half-elf sneaked behind. The fog unfortunately made things very difficult - Thargal missed with a mighty swing and his warhammer stuck in the floor. The ranger moved to attack with twin blades, but missed and embedded them both in a pillar. Thankfully the druid cast a light spell which cleared the fog, allowing me to shoot and lightly wound the sorcerer. Daerden now took the opportunity to move over to the prisoner and release his shackles. Mistake! Immediately, the man's wounds started to heal, then he transformed into a great dragon. He killed the sorcerer with one bite, thanked us for freeing him, saying he wouldn't kill us this time, then broke through the temple roof in a great rush of wind. The temple crashed down around us, but we managed to avoid becoming trapped in the ruins.

Unfortunately, by the time we were free, my village was ablaze.
